---
layout: post
title: Rotorcraft Operations Center
subtitle: Virtual and Physical Dashboards for Predictive Fleet Monitoring
image: /img/projects/GE/roc3-square.jpg
share-img: /img/projects/GE/roc3-square.jpg
tags: [GE]
---
The rotorcraft operations center (ROC) is a digital project featuring virtual and physical dashboards to display summarized fleet info with the objective of being able to predict engine events before they happen. Currently, engine data is monitored monthly through manually compiled summary report, but this project will help automate these reports so that they can be monitored daily instead. Eventually, as reports are automated, modern statistical and analytical tools can be applied to provide insights beyond what are currently available in the report

**Since GE employees are required to sign the EIPIA, actual images and source code couldn't be included on this page**

#### Contributions:
-	Engine Location Map
-	Webcam based mouse

## Engine Location Map:
This map helps the team visualize where their engines are located, allowing them to understand at a glance where they are in need of more spare engines. It can also display other kinds of data, such as where the different operators are located and the distribution of their engines with more precision than was previously possible. When using this map on the desktop, the map is fully interactive, and anytime during the play-through the user can pan and zoom through the map or click on individual data points to see more specific information. The data for this map comes from a database, so it automatically updates as engines are moved. This way, the map can be displayed on the ROC screens with up-to-date data with little maintenance.
#### Tools used:
-	Excel Power Query – Pulled data from a database or CSV file and joined tables to import the desired data
-	VBA – used for post-processing data
-	Excel 3D Maps – used to display location data and provide interactive elements

## Webcam based mouse:
<!-- (include diagram, add visuals)-->
A typical mouse is optimized for smaller screens, but due to the large size of the ROC display, using a regular mouse is difficult. To improve the user’s experience when using the ROC, I created a webcam-based mouse. This mouse provides more intuitive controls and allows the user to have a better view angle while using the ROC. If the user wants to use the desktop computer with a standard mouse instead of the webcam-based mouse, the function will change simply by putting the mouse back on the
Tools used:
-	Python OpenCV library
-	Python win32 library
